Okay. So first, we're going to install
ansible and we're going to do that in a Jenkins host.
We're going to do that with a sudo apt install ansible, it's already installed.
So now we're going to install Boto, pip install boto.
So let's do sudo pip install boto.
Great. Okay, that's already installed.
So next we need to install the Jenkins plugin for CloudBees AWS Credentials plugin,
which we can get if we go into Manage Jenkins, Manage Plugins,
and we have the CloudBees AWS Credentials plugin
which is already installed on the system.
Great. So now we have to configure
the AWS credentials in Jenkins so that it can be used in the site of the pipeline.
So to do that,
I'm going to come over to Jenkins.
We're going to go into Credentials,
we're going to go into Global,
we're going to click on add credentials,
and we're going to under the kind select AWS Credentials and we're going to select an ID.
You will put in your credentials here and we'll click on okay.
Great. So now we have configured the AWS credentials in Jenkins.
So now we can map the credentials from Jenkins to the pipeline application.
So why don't we do this.
We go into the Jenkins file and you will observe here
that our first stage we have AWS professionals with credentials,
and we're mapping the AmazonWebServicesCredentialsBindings, accessKeyVariable.
Then this is very important,
so this must match up credentials ID.
So you could access key variable.
Now what we're doing is we're writing these into these files so that
we can allow it to interact with AWS.
Great. So there's one last thing we need to
do and that's we need to make sure that we've granted inside of our policy
the capability to interact with elastic load balancing and then
we've also granted it CreateServiceLinkedRole task as well.
So let's go ahead and we're going to go into,
so inside of Policies go and customize policies,
and I click on Minimum Security model and here is
our policy and we can click on that policy and click JSON,
and then we can input it directly inside of here.
Okay great. We are good to go.
So now we need to set up our Private Route53 zone.
So let's go in to our AWS console and we're using our regular user over it here,
and then we're going to go into Route53.
Click on that. We're going to go into hosted zones and then if you click create a zone,
make sure you select private hosted zone.
Let's do text.come, create
and select the region that's appropriate for where we are doing,
which in this case is US West 2, then click Create.
Okay, so that's how you create your first zone record.
Next, we'll go about creating a health check.
So let's come back here.
Let's go into health checks.
I'm going to click create health check and put in test.com,
and we're going to put it domain name.
Put in test.com.
Next, I'll check and we have our new health check.
Great. Now we're going to go about running a deployment.
So to do this, we're going to go into our loop here.
We're going to rerun this entire thing.
Great. So now you'll also see that we updated Route 53 here.
So let's go take a look here.
Back to host zones.
We're going to click on the one that I created specifically for this.
Then I can see here value for www as shown in the what we expect it to be,
which is this nginxblue-load-balancer.
If we come back and go to EC2 and the right region, I'm running instances.
We see that it has created two web servers,
you can see that those were just created based on the time and date stamp.
Okay, and then we can go into our load balancers
here and we can see that it just created this load balancer that's running.
Great. So now we've done our blue deploy,
let's go back to pipeline.
We're going to do pipeline deploy.
These are both just different branches with the repository.
So it's going to create two brand new EC2 instances.
Now let's create the instances so we wait for them to come online.
Now let's proceed to add them to the load balancer.
Now interchanging rows three.
Great. It has not completed the last step.
Let's take a look at what I created.
Click the Refresh button here,
I only see our new load balancer much of it was just created,
and we'll come back here.
You see we have two additional instances and we'll go on to Route 53.
We're going to go on to our domain and now we're clicking this,
and you'll notice that this has been updated.
So the next question is well how did we do all of these tasks?
So let's take a look at our Jenkins file first off.
So our Jenkins file calls ansiblePlaybook and it calls main.yaml,
uses the inventory file inventory.
So now let's take a look at domain.yaml.
Inside domain.yaml, we're including our create instance.
So let's take a look at what that does.
So first, we start with sending up an EOB and create our EC2 instance.
Security groups we wait for it to come online.
We add them to our EOB,
and we set our Route 53 with new alias.
We have this defined,
so we have a variable here.
You'll see that this is keyed off of application,
application is defined in domain.yaml.
We'll set that as nginxblue.
We're specifically in the blue branch,
and that's how it works. Great.